# Hikr
#### Video Demo:  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gGt3T43ataY>
#### Description:
Hikr allows you to spend less time planning your hikes and more time hiking them! In hikr, you can build a database of hikes that includes relevant data for each hike. Then, you can filter hikes based on length, elevation gain, location, and/or whether dogs are allowed. You can also delete erroneous entries in the database.

The database of hikes is stored in the file 'hikes.db'. This was created in SQLite3, and all of the changes & calls to it are performed using the db.execute function.

The app.py file is what contains all of the python script for this project. This is what take the user's input and adds it to SQL files (under the add function) and filters which hikes to display (under the / function). It also can generate an error page if the user does not fill out an input correctly (error function). Let's look at each of these functions more closesly.

The add function takes each input from the user and checks that it meets logical criteria. For example, the name must exist, distance and elevation change must be positive, and the region must be in the original region liss. If any of these are not met, an error page is displayed directing the user to the source of the error. This function then adds the provided data to the SQL databse 'hikes.db'. In the database, each entry is also given a unique integer hikeID, which allows the user to delete entries from the index.

The index function defaults to displaying all of entries in the database in the order they were added. The user may filter hikes based on as many or as few of the search terms listed at the top of the page as desired. If a field is left blank, it defaults to the least restrictive value for that field. Specifically, if minimum distance or elevation are blank, they default to 0; if maximum distance or elevation are blank, they default to max float values; if region is left blank it displays hikes from all regions; and if the allowance of dogs is left blank, it defaults to displaying hikes that do and do not allow dogs.

The 4 html files included with this project are add.html, error.html, index.html, and layout.html. Layout is the basis for add and index so that they preserve aestheics across the 2 main pages of Hikr. The style of these pages is heavily reliant on Bootstrap. This includes a navigation bar at the top of the page that lists the website as Hikr, and links to the main page (to filter hikes) and the page to add hikes. The page to filter hikes (index.html) includes a form at the top the user can use to filter as described in the previous paragraph. Below that is a table that displays hikes and their supporting information in a responsive table. To the right of each entry is a Delete button, which communicates to the app.py file the 'hikeID' of the corresponding hike so that it may be deleted. add.html includes a simple form for the user to add hikes. Some constraints have been set in the html file for this page, specifically that all fields are required so that error messages will pop up if the user attempts to submit without filling all the fields. Other more complex errors (such as neagive values for distance or elevation gain) will spur the use of error.html.
